# gesture-recognition
Hand Gesture Recognition using Image processing techniques

AIM: Hand Gesture Recognition based on Digital  Image Processing using 

MATLAB OBJECTIVE: Hand Gesture recognition systems  provides us an innovative, natural, user friendly  way of interaction with the computer.  We can use this hand gestures for:  Sign language Recognition Human Machine Interaction .

The program is designed to take a background image  first and then hand gestures. After running the code,When Webcam LED is on, it  will pause for 2 seconds and take the snapshot of  background image.A further 2 second pause and then  it will take the snapshot of hand gesture image. The background is subtracted from the gesture  image and the rest of the processing continues. To satisfy and reduce the computational effort  needed for the processing, pre-processing of the  image taken from the camera is highly important.  Apart from that, numerous factors such as lights,  environment, background of the image,orientation  of the signer, parameters and focus the of camera  impact the result dramatically.The extraction of quantitative feature information from images is the objective of image analysis. • The objective may be: – shape quantification – count the number of structures – characterize the shape of structures The most common object measurements made are those that describe shape. – Shape measurements are physical dimensional measures that characterize the appearance of an object. – The goal is to use the fewest necessary measures to characterize an object adequately so that it may be unambiguously classified.The performance of any shape measurements depends on the quality of the original image and how well objects are preprocessed.  A measure of roundness or circularity (area-toperimeter ratio) which excludes local irregularities can be obtained as the ratio of the area of an object to the area of a circle with the same convex perimeter: – This statistic equals 1 for a circular object and less than 1 for an object that departs from circularity, except that it is relatively insensitive to irregular boundaries.  Next is peak erection , we have used an ibuilt matlab function , and given it a peak offset. This function will return us the location and value of peaks. Next based on our observations , we have classified the gestures based on the values of round and number of peaks.
